This next part we're actually going to go
kind of deep on on writing JavaScript.
And that is kind of the whole
next section of the talk
here writing web components
with JavaScript.
And I put this guy in here
cuz he's just frustrated,
I'm frustrated you have
your last half hour.
I'm frustrated but
the styling can be frustrating but
authoring I think you're
starting to see it.
One thing you need to know about
web components is they have a life
cycle just like a view component or
a react component, or
I think every other framework has
a life cycle in updating life cycle.
And in this custom alert example,
we get the observed attributes and
then we have a constructor and the super
says, make our custom array here.
Or I can do some drawing here make
our this super means make our custom
alert behave like an html element
right that's pretty easy.
And then next in the stack it's gonna
go to connected callback, right,
once it's ready to go,
it says I'm gonna say I'm connected and
you can do whatever you want.
Once I'm connected, disconnected callback,
whenever if you have to do teardown work,
you do that in the disconnected callback.
This might be like event listeners or
something like that.
And then attribute change
callback is kind of a yeah.
So connected would be like React's
componentDidMount, componentWillUnmount.
AttributeChangeCallback is a little bit
like almost like views watch syntax if
you've ever used that but
you can be basically,
when an update happens to something,
it's observing.
It will tell you the old value and
the new value in case you
want to do something with it
in between like intercepted or
add 1000 to it to make more money
[LAUGH] than your dark website.
So then you wretched define the element
in the bottom of the life cycle.
Okay, then it gets more complicated
right injecting templates.
So you have like to create a shadow DOM,
you need to clone a template.
And so here I'm like creating
a template with a Create Element, and
then putting the inner html,
this feels a little disgusting and
your browser in banking software
might not appreciate that.
I'll explain that a little bit further.
But then div hello world, right?
And then we're expecting that
to show up in the shadow.
So I have to, in my constructor,
attach a shadow route and
create a private variable.
Attach the shadow mode open, and
then I'm going to append the child,
but I'm going to copy the my
template content clone node.
So you just clone that node and
inject that child into
the shadow DOM okay and
the shadow root that no you
put it all together it's fine.
We are snobby developers now, we've had
decades of ergonomics behind our back and
this does not feel like a good
experience in authoring a web component.
Again, there's got to be a better way.
I hear you say,
there's got to be a better way, everybody.
>> It's got a better way.
>> [LAUGH] this is good [LAUGH].
Well, hey, didn't you say web components
were designed for framework authors?
Yes, I did say that web
component libraries.
And this gets at an earlier question, but
there are lots of web component libraries.
There's lots of ways to
cut a web component.
Then, at last count, I have this website
here from I think it's ‹div›RIOTS.
Puts it up, you have ‹div›RIOTS.
They audit all the different
ways to make a web component.
And there's 61 different ways to spit out
a web component and they compare them all.
Like how long it takes to
make a web component or
how much code it takes yeah,
maybe don't use that one.
[LAUGH] but there's a lot of
different ways to make a component.
And then they kind of do it in a set
of like 30 components as well.
And they see like how much
reuse is kind of happening very
valuable thing that div
rights is doing there.
But what's neat about
web component libraries,
they're typically five
to 10 kilobytes in size.
And then provide a lot of convenience and
last in a small package
that's either syntactic sugar or,
just helping you kind of,
I guess shortcut problems or
redundancies and stuff like that.
So, we looked at maybe a little bit
about how like lists helps in CSS and
stuff like that.
But so there's a lot of different flavors.
And my favorite example of this is,
you just saw the way to inject a template,
you create a template or
you could query selector an ID of
an existing template on the page.
And then you clone that note with Lit,
it looks a little bit more
like JSX in a React component.
If you have a render function, that's the
thing they invented and put in there, and
the render function returns
html tag template literal.
And this html tag template literal is,
I think the most wonderful
thing in the world.
There's a lot of, you should watch
this video I've included here.
That's kind of the announcement of
lit html which is the project for
that html tag template literal.
But it's just a it takes a string and
converts it into html.
But what it does is it creates a template
element that creates a template element.
And then it remembers which parts
you have JavaScript the like,
dollar sign curly braces,
it remembers those parts.
And so when you update,
it actually only updates those parts.
So it's really intelligent update
whereas like in in react you'd
have to memorise stuff or whatever to
make it not rerender on every change.
The Cascade is really huge this sort
of balances because it just says, well,
I've remembered what I need to update.
And so
I only update the little micro parts.
I don't update the big template.
So pretty cool,
pretty efficient updating system.
But that's all happening
behind the scenes.
And that's like another reason you'd
maybe want to use a framework, right?
I'm not div report is not going
to code my own a template
creator system LAUGH] JSX alternative,
but somebody has.
And so I'm going to leverage
the framework to help with that.
Again, the lit has a full component
life cycle and it adds, actually, hooks.
We had connected callback and disconnected
callback, but it adds new I guess
more human language update, like,
hey, I'm going to perform an update.
Did you wanna do anything to
this data before I update it?
No, great then I'm gonna render okay?
And then once I render, then I'm just
gonna tell everyone I updated or
an attribute updated or
whatever that changed.
And then if it was the first update I'm
actually just gonna say the first update
happened.
So like component lifecycle maybe looks a
bit more like this like it's gonna update
and then I'll render and
then tell everyone and updated.
And then they'll like go back and
then kinda do a loop.
So I don't know if that's exact but
that's sort of how I see it just
like it's going to actually like
figure out that it when it needs to
render a little bit more efficiently.
Give us a little some few more hooks in,
doesn't feel as ugly to be
honest which of course is the most
important thing in web development.